First, you need to ensure your running kernel actually supports MPTCP. MPTCP support is present in the standard Linux kernel since version 5.6. Debian 11 ("Bullseye") and later often include kernels with MPTCP support, but you should verify it.

    Check the running kernel version:
    Bash

uname -r

If the version is 5.6 or higher, the kernel likely includes MPTCP support.

Check kernel configuration: You can check the active kernel modules. MPTCP kernel components usually have "mptcp" in their name.
Bash

                grep MPTCP /boot/config-$(uname -r)

    Look for a line like CONFIG_MPTCP=y or CONFIG_MPTCP=m.

2. 📝 Check the Sysctl Status (Runtime Settings)

Linux exposes many kernel parameters via the /proc and /sys filesystems, which are manageable using the sysctl command.

The MPTCP settings are typically found under the net.mptcp namespace.

    Check if MPTCP is enabled:
    Bash

sysctl net.mptcp.enabled

A value of 1 means MPTCP is active; 0 means it is disabled.

Check the default MPTCP scheduler: The scheduler determines how data is distributed across subflows.

Bash

sysctl net.mptcp.scheduler

(e.g., default, roundrobin, ecpf)

Check the default MPTCP path manager: The path manager is responsible for adding and removing subflows.
Bash

    sysctl net.mptcp.path_manager

    (e.g., fullmesh, ndiffports)

3. 🔎 Use the ss Utility (Socket Statistics)

The ss utility (Socket Statistics, often replacing netstat) is the most powerful tool for seeing active MPTCP connections and their details.

    List all active MPTCP connections: You can filter the output of ss for connections that have the MPTCP option enabled.
    Bash

    ss -tip '( mptcp )'

        -t: Show TCP sockets.

        -i: Show internal TCP information (including MPTCP details).

        -p: Show process using the socket.

        The filter '( mptcp )' specifically isolates MPTCP connections.

    Examine a specific connection: When looking at the detailed output for an MPTCP connection, you will see a field labeled MPTCP (or similar) followed by details about the active subflows, the connection ID, and the states of the individual paths.

Using these commands, you can move from general kernel support down to the specific details of active MPTCP sessions, aligning with your interest in detailed programming concepts and system-level configuration.
